now it came to pass a long time after
now it came to pass a long time after the Lord had given rest to Israel from
the Lord had given rest to Israel from
the Lord had given rest to Israel from all their enemies round about that
all their enemies round about that
all their enemies round about that Joshua was old advanced in age and
Joshua was old advanced in age and
Joshua was old advanced in age and Joshua called for all Israel for their
Joshua called for all Israel for their
Joshua called for all Israel for their elders for their heads for their judges
elders for their heads for their judges
elders for their heads for their judges and for their officers and said to them
and for their officers and said to them
and for their officers and said to them I am old advanced in age you have seen
I am old advanced in age you have seen
I am old advanced in age you have seen all that the Lord your God has done to
all that the Lord your God has done to
all that the Lord your God has done to all these nations because of you for the
all these nations because of you for the
all these nations because of you for the Lord your God
Lord your God
Lord your God as he who has fought for you see I have
as he who has fought for you see I have
as he who has fought for you see I have divided to you by lot these nations that
divided to you by lot these nations that
divided to you by lot these nations that remain to be an inheritance for your
remain to be an inheritance for your
remain to be an inheritance for your tribes from the Jordan with all the
tribes from the Jordan with all the
tribes from the Jordan with all the nations that I have cut off as far as
nations that I have cut off as far as
nations that I have cut off as far as the Great Sea westward and the Lord your
the Great Sea westward and the Lord your
the Great Sea westward and the Lord your God will expel them from before you and
God will expel them from before you and
God will expel them from before you and drive them out of your sight
so you shall possess their land as the
so you shall possess their land as the Lord your God promised you therefore be
Lord your God promised you therefore be
Lord your God promised you therefore be very courageous to keep and to do all
very courageous to keep and to do all
very courageous to keep and to do all that is written in the book of the law
that is written in the book of the law
that is written in the book of the law of Moses lest you turn aside from it to
of Moses lest you turn aside from it to
of Moses lest you turn aside from it to the right hand or to the left and lest
the right hand or to the left and lest
the right hand or to the left and lest you go among these nations these who
you go among these nations these who
you go among these nations these who remain among you you shall not make
remain among you you shall not make
remain among you you shall not make mention of the name of their gods nor
mention of the name of their gods nor
mention of the name of their gods nor cause anyone to swear by them you shall
cause anyone to swear by them you shall
cause anyone to swear by them you shall not serve them nor bow down to them but
not serve them nor bow down to them but
not serve them nor bow down to them but you shall hold fast to the Lord your God
you shall hold fast to the Lord your God
you shall hold fast to the Lord your God as you have done to this day for the
as you have done to this day for the
as you have done to this day for the Lord has driven out from before you
Lord has driven out from before you
Lord has driven out from before you great and strong nations but as for you
great and strong nations but as for you
great and strong nations but as for you no one has been able to stand against
no one has been able to stand against
no one has been able to stand against you to this day one man of you shall
you to this day one man of you shall
you to this day one man of you shall chase a thousand for the Lord your God
chase a thousand for the Lord your God
chase a thousand for the Lord your God is he who fights for you as he promised
is he who fights for you as he promised
is he who fights for you as he promised you therefore take careful heed to
you therefore take careful heed to
you therefore take careful heed to yourselves that you love the Lord your
yourselves that you love the Lord your
yourselves that you love the Lord your God or else if indeed you do go back and
God or else if indeed you do go back and
God or else if indeed you do go back and cling to the remnant of these nations
cling to the remnant of these nations
cling to the remnant of these nations these that remain among you and make
these that remain among you and make
these that remain among you and make marriages with them and go into them and
marriages with them and go into them and
marriages with them and go into them and lay to you know for certain that the
lay to you know for certain that the
lay to you know for certain that the Lord your God will no longer drive out
Lord your God will no longer drive out
Lord your God will no longer drive out these nations from before you
these nations from before you
these nations from before you but they shall give snares and traps to
but they shall give snares and traps to
but they shall give snares and traps to you and scourge us on your sides and
you and scourge us on your sides and
you and scourge us on your sides and thorns in your eyes until you perish
thorns in your eyes until you perish
thorns in your eyes until you perish from this good land which the Lord your
from this good land which the Lord your
from this good land which the Lord your God has given you behold this day I am
God has given you behold this day I am
God has given you behold this day I am going the way of all beers and you know
going the way of all beers and you know
going the way of all beers and you know with all your hearts and in all your
with all your hearts and in all your
with all your hearts and in all your souls that not one thing has failed of
souls that not one thing has failed of
souls that not one thing has failed of all the good things which the Lord your
all the good things which the Lord your
all the good things which the Lord your God spoke concerning hewed all have come
God spoke concerning hewed all have come
God spoke concerning hewed all have come to pass for you not one word of them has
to pass for you not one word of them has
to pass for you not one word of them has failed therefore it shall come to pass
failed therefore it shall come to pass
failed therefore it shall come to pass that as all the good things have come
that as all the good things have come
that as all the good things have come upon you which the Lord your God
upon you which the Lord your God
upon you which the Lord your God promised
promised
promised so the Lord will bring upon you all
so the Lord will bring upon you all
so the Lord will bring upon you all harmful things until he has destroyed
harmful things until he has destroyed
harmful things until he has destroyed you from this good land which the Lord
you from this good land which the Lord
you from this good land which the Lord your God has given you when you have
your God has given you when you have
your God has given you when you have transgressed the Covenant of the Lord
transgressed the Covenant of the Lord
transgressed the Covenant of the Lord your God which he commanded you and have
your God which he commanded you and have
your God which he commanded you and have gone and served other gods and bowed
gone and served other gods and bowed
gone and served other gods and bowed down to them then the anger of the Lord
down to them then the anger of the Lord
down to them then the anger of the Lord will burn against you and you shall
will burn against you and you shall
will burn against you and you shall perish quickly from the good land which
perish quickly from the good land which
perish quickly from the good land which he has given you